1) Explore the data. Provide summary statistics and at least three visualizations for the variable columns (one at a time, or in combination). In a brief paragraph, summarize the distributions for variable values and explain your choices for visualization. Are there any anomalous distributions for variables? How did you determine this? 

For summary statistics I generated the standard statistics of mean, standard deviation, max, min, and quartiles (e.g., the same as in Pandas describe). I did find that the dataset included two NaN values, which I replaced using the mean of the data from that variable. One immediate observation about the dataset is that all the values lie between -2 and 2. One visualization I prefer for datasets with many variables is the heatmap, which is a great way to visually detect patterns in the dataset based on vertical or horizontal striations. Some observations from the heatmap include: larger than normal values in sample sets around 100 as seen in the dark red horizontal striation, and many of the variables are shifted towards the negative values as seen by multiple blue vertical striations. 

2) Present a Principal Components Analysis (PCA) plot for the samples. It should contain a scatterplot of the sample points with the axes PC1 vs. PC2. Indicate on the plot which samples have class = 1 and which have class = 0. 

3a) Calculate a statistic for every variable that describes its relationship with the class column. Don't list them all, but for the variable column with the most significant statistic, provide a visualization that shows its relationship with class. Include a brief paragraph describing your choices of statistic and visualization. 

Because the class column is boolean I selected the point biserial correlation coefficient, which is a modified version of Pearson’s correlation coefficient that adjusts for one variable consisting of only two states. The most significant variable was selected by choosing the variable with the smallest p-value when computing the point biserial coefficient. For a visualization I selected the two dimensional kernel density estimator. Although the KDE is inaccurate for binomial data, it shows a density around zero and one, the visualization is useful to see how the variables are distributed together in two space. 

3b) Calculate a statistic for every variable that describes its relationship with PC1 (i.e. the first principal component). For the variable with the most significant statistic, provide a visualization that shows its relationship with PC1. Include a brief paragraph describing your choices of statistic and visualization. 

With the first principal component being continuous as is the variable data I selected the standard Pearson correlation coefficient to describe the relationship between PC1 and the data set. The most significant variable was selected by choosing the variable with the smallest p-value when computing the Pearson correlation coefficient. For a visualization I again selected the two dimensional kernel density estimator. I find the KDE to be one of the better visualizations to observe how two variables relate with one another. 
